So continuing on with try/catch blocks
I want to now look at finally clause.
So we need to create a new class in our exceptions project,
and I'm gonna call it finally example.
(mouse clicking)
(typing on a keyboard)
All right, now this class has a nested set
of try/catch statements in the main method calling
a method called getPropertyFromFile,
and that's the method down there.
Now, we're trying to get the property value
we want first from a file named FinallyProperties.txt.
When that fails we try with a file named,
AnotherProperties.txt file, which should also fail.
So the method gap property from file,
looking at that again, that's got a try finally clause
demonstrating that a catch clause is not required.
The finally clause's purpose is to clean up resources.
It'll always get executed whether
an error occurs in the try clause or not.
So let's execute this code.
(mouse clicking)
And there's the output, because the FinallyProperties.txt
file doesn't exist we try to get the property value
from the file, which fails because the file doesn't exist
and try it, again, with another file
the same thing happened.
All right, so let's actually create one of these files.
And you need to put this file in your project root.
And in IntelliJ, I can just click
on the project name at the top there,
click on New, and select File.
I'm gonna call this one FinallyProperties.txt
(typing on a keyboard)
And in there we need to add
a single line, (typing on a keyboard) PROPERTY_1 and one.
Literally just a single line there.
So let's close that so that it's saved,
You can see the file in the pane, in the project pane now.
(mouse clicking)
Let's execute the code again. (mouse clicking)
And this time we get a different output.
You can see we actually read the value,
property value equals one.
Let's now force an error, so we're gonna change
the code that splits the line
in the get property from file method.
(mouse clicking)
so we're gonna change this one, change line 38.
We'll change the 1 there to a 2.
(mouse clicking)
Execute the code again, and now (mouse clicking)
and you can see we've got an error
in FinallyExample.java line 38,
which of course is the line we changed
and the call originally came from line 17, as you can see.
And the output in the output pane confirms that.
So the area is a runtime exception ultimately
and is not caught by our catch clause,
and that's because we specified an I/O exception.
And the exception, of course, is
an array index out of bounds exception.
So let's change the catch exception,
specifically these first two lines here, lines 18 and 19.
I'm gonna replace those so the code now
is looking for an I/O exception,
or an array index out of bounds exception.
Execute that code (mouse clicking)
and, as you can see, we haven't got an error anymore.
And that's because exception here
in the code was called and the reason
for that is that AnotherPrperties.txt doesn't exist.
So, basically, the last line there
Inner catch exception block starts here,
was a result of the code executing on line 26.
Let's now demonstrate what happens if that file does exist.
So I'm gonna back to the project pane.
I'm gonna take a copy of FinallyProperties.txt,
copy that, and paste it.
If you haven't got IntelliJ, or can't do it
the way I'm doing it (mouse clicking)
then just copy this file into your project root.
I'm calling this one AnotherProperties.txt.
(mouse clicking)
You can see it's there, same values.
Close that down, and run it again.
And we've now, again, got an exception line 38,
which is reading the property,
and the code it's then executing from, line 23,
which is consistent with the code being executed
where we thought it was.
And just to go back to what we had previously,
all right what I'm gonna do then
is just go back and rename that.
(mouse clicking and typing on a keyboard)
So I can see the error that occurred
when the file didn't exist.
(mouse clicking) I'm not gonna change any references
I'm just gonna literally change that file.
So we're still dealing with another Properties.txt.
Run the code and, again, this time clearly
you can see (mouse clicking) that we've actually caught
the array index out of bounds exception.
Basically, the code now demonstrating
that the array index out of bounds exception was caught
and handled in the same way and in the same clause
as the outer I/O exception clause.
So in this video and the previous one
I showed multiple examples of try/catch blocks
using generic and specific examples.
We talked about the interruption
of the flow of the executable thread.
We hid exceptions, we created multiple catch blocks.
We created nested try/catch blocks.
And also I demonstrated the finally clause,
which when declared will always get executed.
Its purpose is to clean up resources
in a uniform way, for example, closing files.
And finally, I also demonstrated methods
that throw exceptions.
But, with that said, in the next video
we're gonna delve deeper into
the throws declaration of a method.
See you in the next video.